# Documentation for the `odstable_layoutshowcase` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *odstable_layoutshowcase* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: odstable_layoutshowcase
- Version: 0.1.0
- Generated: 2025-07-30T00:49:22
- Author(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- Maintainer(s): Yutaka Morioka(sasyupi@gmail.com)
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*B0976852C072BB1DBBE99B36D4EC48313D33E56CE85B27721D2FD44FACE1384A` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*EA33E474E5A8FB9F43F71FF9384F6294AEBCDC681D9B047C42810A9856061DB5` for this version
  
---
 
# The `odstable_layoutshowcase` package, version: `0.1.0`;
  
---
 
A SAS macro toolkit to showcase layout patterns using PROC ODSTABLE.
Provides reusable examples of table design with multi-level headers, conditional formatting, composite layouts, and auto-generated RTF output.
Ideal for clinical reporting, style template development, and training use
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20241207`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `odstable_layoutshowcase` package content
The `odstable_layoutshowcase` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%odstable_layoutshowcase()` macro ](#odstablelayoutshowcase-macros-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%odstable_layoutshowcase()` macro <a name="odstablelayoutshowcase-macros-1"></a> ######

Macro   : odstable_layoutshowcase
 Purpose   : Showcase of PROC ODSTABLE layout patterns with RTF output generator
             - Generates multi-patterned tables with custom headers/footers
             - Demonstrates cell merging, grouping, pagination, and style templates
             - Designed for instructional, reference, and reusable reporting workflows

 Author    : Yutaka Morioka

 Usage     : 
   %odstable_layoutshowcase(outpath=..., sampleno=1~4);

 Outputs   : 
   - RTF file(s) with pre-defined table layout samples
   - Corresponding template and macro code as .txt for inspection

Useage Exampke
%odstable_layoutshowcase(sampleno=1);
%odstable_layoutshowcase(sampleno=2);
%odstable_layoutshowcase(sampleno=3);
%odstable_layoutshowcase(sampleno=4);
%odstable_layoutshowcase(sampleno=1, outpath =output directory path);



# Key Features of Sample 1
  Multiple Variables in a Single Cell:
  When multiple variables are output into the same cell, they are enclosed in parentheses to visually group them together.
  Line Breaks in Header Labels:
  Line breaks within header text can be defined using a custom delimiter specified by the split= option (e.g., #), allowing for clean vertical formatting.
  Hierarchical Header Structure:
  Header levels are built by stacking multiple define header statements, where each level is defined by its corresponding start= and end= variable range. This approach enables clear and layered multi-row headers.

# Key Features of Sample 3
  Conditional Styling with cellstyle:
  Borders can be applied conditionally using syntax like
  cellstyle condition as data{borderbottomwidth=1}, enabling precise control over table appearance based on data values.
  Page Breaks via PRETEXT:
  You can insert page breaks programmatically using PRETEXT="(*ESC*)R'\pagebb'", which outputs an RTF escape sequence before the target cell.
  Targeting Specific Rows or Columns:
  The example also demonstrates the use of _row_ and _col_ in condition expressions, showing how to selectively apply styles to specific rows or columns in the table layout.

# Key Features of Sample 4
 Composite Layout within a Single Report:
 By specifying startpage=no in the ODS RTF statement, multiple tables can be rendered within a single RTF page flow, enabling composite layouts in one report.

Footnote Area Adjustment Using a Gap Column:
The example demonstrates how to define a gap column to reserve space for footnotes in the second table.
This ensures consistent layout and prevents footnotes from overlapping with table content

 License   : MIT-style (Free to use and modify with attribution)

 Remarks   :
   This package is part of the "odstable_layoutshowcase" project, designed as a 
   reference implementation and educational tool for RTF table layout construction.
   Intended for use in clinical trial reporting, programming education, and template 
   standardization efforts.

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
	Copyright (c) [2025]  [Yutaka Morioka]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy   
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal    
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights   
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell   
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is   
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:                      
                                                                                
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included       
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.                        
                                                                                
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR    
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,      
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE   
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER        
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
